---
layout: post
title: Markdown Tutorial
tag: programming
date: 2023-10-04
---

<a class="top-link hide" href="#" id="js-top">↑</a>

**Markdown Guide**

Basic syntax: <https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#horizontal-rules>

John Gruber’s Markdown: <https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/>

Extended Markdown (Flavors of Markdown):

When markdown is published on GitHub, it is rendered using a *markdown variant* called [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) (or GFM). GFM supports most of the markdown constructs you are familiar with from Pandoc markdown, but it doesn’t have support for more advanced technical writing features like citations, footnotes, and definition lists.

Pandoc's Markdown: <https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown>

Quarto Markdown: <https://quarto.org/docs/authoring/markdown-basics.html#lists>

kramdown: <https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html>

GitHub markup: <https://github.com/github/markup>



**Comments**

`<! --# Comments go here -->`



**Escape backticks**

To include a literal backtick character within a code span, you can use multiple backticks as the opening and closing delimiters:

- To escape one backtick, enclose it with 2 backticks and space before and after `` `
- To escape three backticks, enclose them with 4 backticks and space before and after. ````  ``` ```` 

```markdown
A single backtick in a code span: `` ` ``

A backtick-delimited string in a code span: `` `foo` ``

A triple backticks: ```` ``` ````
```



The line below is indented by at least 4 spaces.

​	```python

​	def function():

​		print ("Yes")

​	```



___

## GFM

**GitHub Flavored Markdown**

Codeblocks can sometimes break ordered lists (i.e. the list always returns to 1). To prevent this, you can do the following.

1. Add a linebreak between the list item and the code-block, and indent the code-block by 4 spaces.
   
   Adding blank lines surrounding code chunks is recommended by Rmd to increase readability.

   ~~~markdown
   1. Number 1
   
       ```python
       print("Hello World")
       ```

       text after code block1
   
   2. Number 2
   
       ```ruby
       puts 'Hello World'
       ```

       text after code block2
   
   3. Number 3
   
       ```c
       printf("Hello World");
       ```
       
       text after code block3
   ~~~

2. Do not add a linebreak, but have the code-block aligned with the indentation of the line item.

   ~~~markdown
   1. Number 1
      ```python
      print("Hello World")
      ```
      text after code block1
   
   2. Number 2
      ```ruby
      puts 'Hello World'
      ```
      text after code block2
   
   3. Number 3
      ```c
      printf("Hello World");
      ```
      text after code block3
   ~~~

Will be rendered into the following:

1. Number 1
   ```python
   print("Hello World")
   ```
   text after code block1

2. Number 2
   ```ruby
   puts 'Hello World'
   ```
   text after code block2

3. Number 3
   ```c
   printf("Hello World");
   ```
   text after code block3

Ref:

- [GitHub Flavored Markdown Spec](https://github.github.com/gfm/#what-is-github-flavored-markdown-)



___

## Equations

Note that for markdown block equations, need to add a blank line before and after `$$`. Otherwise, the equation will be rendered as inline.

Typora support TeX-style references, i.e., `\label{ref1}\tag{1}`. Note that you must add a number using `\tag{}`; otherwise, the equation won't be numbered and therefore cannot be cross-referenced. This is like you need to number the table or figure in order to cross-reference them.

Here is a labeled equation: 

$$
x+1\over\sqrt{1-x^2} \label{ref1}\tag{1}
$$

This is a reference : $\eqref{ref1}$

```latex
Here is a labeled equation:

$$
x+1\over\sqrt{1-x^2} \label{ref1}\tag{1}
$$

This is a reference : $\eqref{ref1}$
```

- When you add custom `\tag{1}`, you don't have to surround your equations within `\begin{equation}` environments.
- If you want automatic numbering, you must surround your equations within `\begin{equation}` environments. See the example below.

```latex
Here is an AR(1) model, 
$$
\begin{equation}
X_t=\phi_1 X_{t-1} + \varepsilon_t.\label{AR1}
\end{equation}
$$

Let $\phi(L)=1-\phi_1 L\,,$ then we can express the innovation $\eqref{AR1}$ as ...
```

Here is an AR(1) model, 
$$
\begin{equation}
X_t=\phi_1 X_{t-1} + \varepsilon_t.\label{AR1}
\end{equation}
$$

Let $\phi(L)=1-\phi_1 L\,,$ then we can express the innovation $\eqref{AR1}$ as ...

Note that the automatic numbering starts from 1, ignoring any eqns with custom `\tag{1}`. So if you provide custom `\tag{}`, make sure you don't use numbers, you can use stars instead. 



___

## Tables

To add a table, use three or more hyphens (`---`) to create each column’s header, and use pipes (`|`) to separate each column.

Cell widths can vary, just use different relative length of hyphens.

```markdown
| Syntax | Description |
| --- | ----------- |
| Header | Title |
| Paragraph | Text |
```

You can align text in the columns to the left, right, or center by adding a colon (`:`) to the left, right, or on both side of the hyphens within the header row.



___

## Bullet list

You can make a bulleted list by starting each line with a `-` or `*` or `+` character followed by a space. You can make a numbered list by starting each line with a `1.` followed by a space.

Markdown need an <span style='color:#32CD32'>**Empty line**</span> before a list.

`This will not work`

`* Item 1`

`* Item 1`

`* Item 1`

```markdown
* one
* two
* three
```

This will produce a “compact” list. `\tightlist` settings will apply, where `\itemsep` and `\parskip` are set to set to zero.


If you want a “loose” list, in which each item is formatted as a paragraph, put spaces between the items:

```markdown
* one

* two

* three
```

<span style='color:#32CD32'>**Identation**</span> is essential to bullet lists in markdown as it indicates bullet levels.

You can make a nested section of a list by **adding two spaces** before the bullet or number character.

- four spaces or one tab work before the bullet too.
- It is possible to add one blank line between different levels to increase readability.
  - If list items are separated by blank lines, Markdown will wrap the items in `<p>` tags in the HTML output. 

```markdown
* unordered list
    + sub-item 1 
    + sub-item 2 
        - sub-sub-item 1
```

* unordered list
    + sub-item 1 
    + sub-item 2 
        - sub-sub-item 1

- You can still indent a paragraph even if you don't need a new bullet point. The indentation indicates that this paragraph belongs to the preceding point.

  - You can also nest other elements like blockquotes or code blocks.

  ```markdown
  1. Ingredients
  
      - spaghetti
      - marinara sauce
      - salt
  
  2. Cooking
  
     Bring water to boil, add a pinch of salt and spaghetti. Cook until pasta is **tender**.
  
  3. Serve
  
     Drain the pasta on a plate. Add heated sauce. 
  
     > No man is lonely eating spaghetti; it requires so much attention.
  
     Bon appetit!
  ```

  1. Ingredients

     - spaghetti
     - marinara sauce
     - salt

  2. Cooking

     Bring water to boil, add a pinch of salt and spaghetti. Cook until pasta is **tender**.

  3. Serve

     Drain the pasta on a plate. Add heated sauce. 

     > No man is lonely eating spaghetti; it requires so much attention.

     Bon appetit!


- Letter-ordered lists are NOT a part of standard markdown. 
  
  The letters will only appear when rendering the markdown using an markdown extension, e.g., pandoc uses `fancy_list` extension, or by using CSS.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q: How to add a <span class="env-green">horizontal rule</span> between list items without breaking out of the bullet list?

A: Two options:

- Use `<hr>` html tag ✅
- Indent the horizontal rule.

```markdown
- First point
  ---

- Second point

or using html tag

- First point
  <hr>
- Second point
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Start numbering at a number other than 1**

**Jekyll** uses Kramdown as Markdown parser that support setting custom attributes (see [docs](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#inline-attribute-lists)). And html5 support start attribute that change start number of ordered list see [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ol#attr-start).

The markdown file need to look like this:

```markdown
1. First

Some text and other stuff

{:start="2"}
2. Second

Other stuff
```

will be rendered into:

> 1. First
> 
> Some text and other stuff
> 
> {:start="2"}
> 2. Second
> 
> Other stuff

ref: <https://stackoverflow.com/a/48612359>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`fancy_list` extension

This is a pandoc extension which provides special list numbering formats like: *uppercase* and *lowercase letters* and *roman numerals*, while original markdown only supports Arabic numerals.

List markers may be enclosed in parentheses or followed by a single right-parenthesis or period. They must be separated from the text that follows by at least one space, and, if the list marker is a capital letter with a period, by at least two spaces.

```markdown
Supported list markers by Pandoc extension fancy_lists
1) First item
A. Second item
(a) Third item
```

ref: <https://pandoc.org/demo/example33/8.7-lists.html>


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Refer to [**Pandoc list**](https://my1396.github.io/R-Notes/4.4-quarto.html#lists) for more advanced list features in Pandoc markdown.

Q: How to start numbering at a number other than 1 for Pandoc Markdown?  
A: Simply <span class="env-green">explicitly restart the list at the number you want</span>. Note that this does <span class="env-orange">**NOT**</span> work for Kramdown.

Example:

````markdown
1. item 1
1. item 2

```
Code block
```

3. item 3
1. item 4
````

will be rendered as:

 > 1. item 1
 > 1. item 2
 >
 > ```
 > Code block
 > ```
 > 
 > {:start="3"}
 > 3. item 3
 > 1. item 4



For **long ordered lists** with more than 10 items, you can add two spaces after the period to keep the numbers and items aligned. 

Normally, a list won't have more than 99 items, so two spaces are enough.

**Suggested practice:**

Sometimes you see <span class="env-green">**two spaces** are added for items 1 to 9</span> and <span class="env-green">**one space** is added for items ≥ 10</span>, and item paragraphs need to be indented by four spaces. This convention is convenient because a tab is equivalent to four spaces, and it is easier to type a tab than multiple spaces.

```markdown
1.  First item
2.  Second item

...
9.  Ninth item
10. Tenth item
```

will be rendered as:

1.  First item
2.  Second item

...

{:start="9"}
3.  Ninth item
4.  Tenth item


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Horizontal rules

To create a horizontal rule, use three or more asterisks (`***`), dashes (`---`), or underscores (`___`) on a line by themselves.

- The rendered output of all three looks identical.

```
***

---

_________________
```

- For compatibility, put blank lines before and after horizontal rules.

| ✅ Do this                                                    | ❌ Don't do this                                              |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Try to put a blank line before ... <br />`---`<br />... and after a horizontal rule. | Without blank lines, this would be a heading.<br />`---`<br />Don't do this! |

- Alternatively, you can use the HTML tag `<hr>` to create a horizontal rule.



**Backquotes**

To create a blockquote, start a line with greater than `>` followed by an optional space.

- To keep the quote in one block, blank lines inside the quote must contain the `>` character too.



___

## Links

`[text](https://url)` create a text linked to the url in parentheses.

To quickly turn a URL or email address into a link, enclose it in angle brackets. 

`<fake@example.com>` will show like <fake@example.com>

Note that urls in markdown cannot handle special characters, such as space, parenthesis, pipes. It is suggested to use a <span style='color:#32CD32'>html tag `<a href="">link</a>`</span> if your markdown supports html. Otherwise, need to 

- replace space with `%20`
- replace parenthesis with `%28`

### Reference-style links

<span style='color:#00CC66'>**Reference-style links**</span> use a second set of <span style="color: #00CC66;">square brackets</span> `[text][id]`, inside which you place a label of your choosing to identify the link.

Q: Why we use reference-style links?  
A: The point of reference-style links is not that they’re easier to write. We aim to keep the text free from long URLs, making it easier to read. 

`[id]` is a label used to point to the link you define somewhere else in your document, usually end of file to keep your text easier to read.

```markdown
This is an example of referenc link: **[text][id]**.
```

This is an example of referenc link: **[Link to Google][google-link]**.

[google-link]: https://www.google.com/  "Optional Title Here"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Link definition**

The link definition can be placed anywhere <span style='color:#00CC66'>after a blank line</span>, but is generally near the bottom. You can also put them immediately after each paragraph in which they’re used.

Definition identifiers may consist of letters, numbers, spaces, and punctuation. They are not case sensitive.

Then, anywhere in the document, you define your link label like this, on a line by itself:

```markdown
[id]: http://example.com/  "Optional Title Here"
```

- put your label in square brackets, followed immediately by a colon and at least one space.
- write your url for the link, which you can <u>optionally enclose in angle brackets</u>, e.g., `<http://example.com/>`.
- you can specify an optional title, enclosed in double quotes, single quotes, or parentheses. It is a <u>reminder of yourself</u> what the website is about. Also when you hover your cursor above the link, the title will show.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Implicit link**

The <span style='color:#00CC66'>*implicit link name*</span> shortcut allows you to *omit the name of the link*, in which case the link text itself is used as the name. Just use an empty set of square brackets `[]` — e.g., to link the word “Google” to the google.com web site, you could simply write:

```
[Google][]
```

And then define the link:

```
[Google]: http://google.com/
```

- Link names may contain spaces.



**Phone and email links**

[Call me ](tel:111111) `[Call Me!](tel:1111111)` using markdown or `<a href="tel:1111111">Call Me!</a>` using html.

[example@example.com](mailto:example@example.com) `[example@example.com](mailto:example@example.com)` or `<a href="mailto:example@example.com">example@example.com</a>`

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Cross References

Internal Links to sections <span class="env-green">**within the same file**</span>.

- Link to **title/heading/section**

  You can use `#` to create links towards any headings in your markdown file.

  ```markdown
  # This is a title
  
  ...
  ...
  ...
  
  
  A [link](#this-is-a-title) to jump towards target heading
  ```

  Note that:

  - `#` for <span style='color:#00CC66'>all heading levels</span>, including level 2, 3 ...

  - <span style='color:#00CC66'>no space</span> between `#` and anchor name;

    <span style='color:#00CC66'>delimited by hyphens</span> if multi-word;

  - anchor tag names must be <span style='color:#00CC66'>lowercase</span>

  ```markdown
  [click on this link](#my-multi-word-header)
  
  ### My Multi Word Header
  ```

  If sections have <span style='color:#00CC66'>special characters</span>, you need to remove those special characters when you add the references.

  ```markdown
  # 1. Python
  
  # 2. c++
  
  # 3. c++11
  
  # 4. asp.net-core
  
  You can add a reference by using:
  [1. Python](#1-python)
  [2. c++](#2-c)
  [3. c++11](#3-c11)
  [4. asp.net-core](#4-aspnet-core)
  ```

  Note how `asp.net-core` becomes `aspnet-core`, `1. python` becomes `1-python`, etc.

- Manually added section IDs ✅
  
  This is the **most reliable** way to create links to sections in markdown.

  To avoid the hassle of escaping special characters, and ensure that when you change the title, the link will still work, it is recommended to manually add an ID to a section.

  To add an ID to a section: use the `{#id}` syntax at the end of the header line.
  For example:

  ```markdown
  ## My Section Title {#my-section-id}
  
  This is a section with a custom ID.
  
  [Link to My Section](#my-section-id)
  ```

- Link to **named anchor**

  This works not only for headings, but also for **any text** in the document.

  The markdown solutions are not universal, may act differently depending on the markdown implementation.

  In such cases, if you want a portable solution, you could use HTML.
  
  You define **named** anchors using raw HTML, for example: `<a id="Chapter1"></a>`. It can be put before any header, or in the same header line.
  
  - **Source**: the target text to which you want to link to, place the following tags before the text:
    
    - <span style='color:#00CC66'>`<a id="name-of-anchor"></a>`</span> or 
    - <span style='color:#00CC66'>`<a name="name-of-anchor"></a>`</span>
    
    If the <span style='color:#00CC66'>source is a heading</span>, then use
    
    - `<h2 name="name-of-anchor">Level 2 heading</h2>`  or
    
    - wrap the anchor point around the heading 
    
      Note that you need to add an empty line between `<a>` and the heading. Otherwise, the heading won't be rendered correctly.
      
      ```markdown
      Tags surround heading
      <a name="level3-heading">
      
      ### Level 3 heading
      </a>
      
      Tags before heading
      <a name="level2-heading-before"></a>
      
      ## Level 2 heading
      
      Tags on the same line with heading
      ## Level 2 heading <a name="level2-heading-same-line"></a>
      ```
    
  - **Reference**: 
    
    - Use html style tags `<a href="#name-of-anchor">Link to Anchor</a>` to link to the target text. Or,
    - `[Link to Anchor](#name-of-anchor)` pure markdown
    - Note the `#` before the label.
  
  
  Use `command + click` to jump to target headings, or open them in Typora, or open in related apps.
  
  ```markdown
  <a id="anchor"></a> Anchor
  
  <a href="#anchor">Link to Anchor</a>
  ```



Cross-references to another file: use html tag `<a href="<path-to-file>/file.html#anchor">Link to another file</a>`

- Note that for Jekyll sites, need to enclose the url root path with <code>{% raw %}{{site.baseurl}}{% endraw %}</code>, e.g., 

{% highlight liquid %} {% raw %}
<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/2023/10/04/Markdown.html#cross-references">Markdown: Cross References </a> for more examples.
{% endraw %} {% endhighlight %}

___

## Typeface

| Format          | Quoted by                     |
| --------------- | ----------------------------- |
| bold            | `**text**` (**text**)         |
| italic          | `*text*` or `_text_` (*text*) |
| bold and italic | `***text***` (***text***)     |
| strikethrough   | `~~text~~` (~~text~~)         |
| underline       | `<u>text</u>` (<u>text</u>)   |



**Start a new line** (line break) without starting a new paragrah:

-  `\` + soft Enter (shift + Enter); or, 
-  two empty spaces at the end of a line `␣␣`, followed by a soft Enter; or, 
- html tags `<br />` or `&nbsp;`



**Insert vertical space**

- To create a blank line, use `&nbsp;` (followed by a blank line). 

  This will add a large vertical space. If you feel it is too large, use the following solution.

- `<div style="height:3px;"><br></div>` use whatever px you want use in html



**Non-Breaking Spaces**

In markdown and html non-breaking space can be inserted by `&nbsp;` in LaTeX output it will be  a `~` character.



Use html entity code to add special characters in Markdown

```html
|checked|unchecked|crossed|
|---|---|---|
|&check;|_|&cross;|
|&#x2611;|&#x2610;|&#x2612;|
```

| checked  | unchecked | crossed  |
| -------- | --------- | -------- |
| &check;  | _         | &cross;  |
| &#x2611; | &#x2610;  | &#x2612; |

[html Codes Table](https://ascii.cl/htmlcodes.htm#google_vignette)

___

## Code Blocks

Note that consecutive code blocks that are only separate by [blank lines](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#blank-lines) are merged together into one code block:


<pre><code>Here comes some code

This text belongs to the same code block.
</code></pre>

If you want to have one code block directly after another one, you need to use an [EOB marker](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#eob-marker) to separate the two:


<pre><code>Here comes some code
^
This text belongs to the same code block.
</code></pre>


The End-Of-Block (EOB) marker – a `^` as first character on an otherwise empty line – is a block level element that can be used to <u>specify the end of a block-level element</u> even if the block-level element, after which it is used, would continue otherwise.

For example, the following gives you one list with two items:

```markdown
* list item one

* list item two
```

By using an EOB marker, you can make two lists with one item each:

```markdown
* list one
^
* list two
```



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Kramdown-specific syntax

### Attribute List Definitions

Attribute List Definitions (ALDs) are where you can define a named attribute set once and then reuse it. 

ALD examples:

```markdown
{:ref-name: #myid .my-class}
```

Elements of ALDs:

- `:ref-name:` is the **identifier** of the element.
  
  This is a reusable named attribute list you can apply later with just `{:ref-name}`. It is like a CSS class shortcut.

- Followed by attributes definitions. 

  - `#myid` is an **id attribute**. 
  - `.my-class` is a **class attribute**. Multiple class attributes can be defined, e.g., `{:id: class="cls1" .cls2}`

- ALDs starts with `{` and and ends with `}`.


Use examples:

- Definition
  
  ```markdown
  {:note-style: .note data-type="info"}
  ```

- Later you can apply it

  ```markdown
  > This is a note.
  {:note-style}
  ```
  which will be rendered into:

  ```html
  <p class="note" data-type="info">This is an important note.</p>
  ```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Attribute Lists

The [Block Inline Attribute List](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#block-ials) is used to attach attributes to a block-level element and the [Span Inline Attribute List](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#span-ials) is used to attach attributes to a span-level element.

This is where you <span class="env-green">**attach attributes directly to a block/span**</span>. 

- Put directly before or after the block-level element to which the attributes should be attached.
  - If a block IAL is directly after and before a block-level element, it is applied to the <span class="env-green">**preceding element**</span>. 


**Block Inline Attribute Lists** (IAL)

Syntax:

```markdown
{: #id .class key=value}
```

Use examples:

```markdown
Paragraph text
{: #myid .highlight data-type="note"}
```

Note that:
- The block IAL is ignored in all other cases, for example, when the block IAL is surrounded by blank lines.
- Inline Attribute Lists take precedence over equally named key-value pairs in referenced Attribute List Definitions.

**Span Inline Attribute Lists**

A span IAL (or two or more span IALs) has to be put directly after the span-level element to which it should be applied, no additional character is allowed between, otherwise it is ignored and only removed from the output.

Use examples:

```
This *is*{:.underline} some `code`{:#id}{:.class}.
A [link](test.html){:rel='something'} and some **tools**{:.tools}.
```


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Pandoc 

Useful docs:
- [Pandoc Documentation](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html)
- [Pandoc's Markdown](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown)

Pandoc is a Haskell library for converting from one markup format to another, including, but not limited to, various flavors of [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/), [HTML](https://www.w3.org/html/), [LaTeX](https://www.latex-project.org/) and [Word docx](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_Open_XML).


### Add Attributes

**Header Attributes**

```markdown
# Header text {#id .class .class key=value  key=value}
```

Unnumbered header

```
# My heading {-}

is just the same as

# My heading {.unnumbered}
```

[**Fenced code block attributes**](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#extension-fenced_code_attributes)

```markdown
<pre id="mycode" class="haskell numberLines" startFrom="100">
  <code>
  ...
  </code>
</pre>
```

Pandoc does not require a specific order of the attributes, you can start with `#id` or `.class`. Note that Kramdown requires the `#id` to be the first attribute.

**Shortcut**

````markdown
```haskell {#mycode .numberLines startFrom="100"}
```
equivalent to
```{#mycode .haskell .numberLines startFrom="100"}
```
````

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Short attribute syntax**

```markdown
.classname[]
#id[]
.class1.class2#id[]
```

- creates a <div> or <span> with the specified class(es) and id.
- `.classname[]` is shorthand for creating a div block with a class in Pandoc/Quarto/Reveal.js Markdown.
- What does the empty square brackets `[]` do?
  - `Pandoc` and `Quarto`: the empty square brackets `[]` are required to indicate that it is a block element. Without the square brackets, it will be treated as an inline element.
     
     Put `key=value` inside the square brackets if you want to add more attributes.
    
     <span class="env-green">The content of the block (the text you want to style) goes **after** the attribute declaration</span>, not inside the brackets.
  
  - <span class="env-green">`xaringan` and `Reveal.js`</span>: put content in the square brackets `[]`

**Simple example:**

```markdown
.red-bg[]
This is highlighted text.
```

will be rendered into

```html
<div class="red-bg">
This is highlighted text.
</div>
```

**Example with multiple attributes:**

```markdown
.red-bg#intro[data-level="2"]
This text is highlighted with class "red-bg", id "intro", and a data attribute.
```

will be rendered into

```html
<div class="red-bg" id="intro" data-level="2">
This text is highlighted with class "red-bg", id "intro", and a data attribute.
</div>
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[**Inline Attributes**](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#extension-inline_code_attributes)

```markdown
[text]{.class key="val"}
```

will be rendered into

```html
<span class="class" key="val">text</span>
```

Example:

```markdown
[Small caps]{.smallcaps}
```

will be rendered into

```html
<span class="smallcaps">Small caps</span>
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## CommonMark

Useful docs:

- [CommonMark](https://commonmark.org)

Attribute Syntax:

<https://talk.commonmark.org/t/consistent-attribute-syntax/272>


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[id]: https://my1396.github.io/EK369E/	"title"
