---
layout: post
title: Mathjax on Github Pages
tag: study
update: 2023-10-12
---

Mathjax enables LaTex syntax to write math equations and show on Github Pages. 

Current (i.e., year 2023) version is V3.0. See official documents [here](https://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/web/start.html#mathjax-components-1).

The configuration, loading, and startup processes for MathJax version 3 are different from those of version 2 in a number of ways. 

Where version 2 had several different methods for configuring MathJax, version 3 streamlines the process and has only one, as described below. In version 2, you always loaded `MathJax.js`, and added a `config=...` parameter to provide a combined configuration file, but in version 3 you load one of several different files, depending on your needs (so you can avoid multiple file transfers, and also use MathJax synchronously, which was not possible in version 2).

## Version 3

Add the following codes to the end of the file `_layouts/base.html`. This loads `MathJax` automatically for all posts. 

```css
<!-- inline config -->
<script>
  MathJax = {
    tex: {
      inlineMath: [['$', '$'], ['\\(', '\\)']],
      macros: {
      	RR: "{\\bf R}",
      	bold: ["{\\bf #1}", 1],
        indep: "{\\perp \\!\\!\\! \\perp}",
    	}
    },
    svg: {
    fontCache: 'global'
  	},
  };
</script>

<!-- load MathJax -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="MathJax-script" async
  src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js">
</script>
```

The first script defines a global object named `MathJax` that contains configuration data for the various components of MathJax. 

The `MathJax` has to be put before the script that loads `MathJax` itself. 

The `MathJax` object defined above means:

- `tex` 
  - `inlineMath` allows you to use single dollar signs (`$`) as  in-line math delimiters, in addition to the usual `\(...\)`.
  - `macros`  allows you to define your own commands. Just include your macro definitions in the `macros` section of the `tex` blocks of your configuration. The code above would define
    - `\RR` to produce a bold-faced “R”, and 
    - `\bold{...}` to put its argument into bold face, 
    - `\indep` ($\indep$) to show double perpendicular sign to represent independence.
  
- `svg` to use a global font cache for all expressions on the page. 
  - `svg` is a Scalable Vector Graphics; it is scalable, high quality at any resolution.
  - Other benifts of using `svg`: It won’t get pixelated at different screen sizes, like a raster image would. 



**Color eqns**

Must enclose the part you want to color in braces `{...}`, otherwise everything behind the `\color` will be colored.

```markdown
{\color{red} x} + {\color{blue} y}
```

The code show a formula as follows

$$
{\color{red} x} + {\color{blue} y}.
$$



Curly braces `$\\{Z_t\\}$` have to use double backslashes. First escape the backslash from Jekyll, then mathjax.



**References**: 

1. <https://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/web/configuration.html>
2. <https://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/input/tex/extensions/newcommand.html>
