---
layout: post
title: Journals
tag: study
update: 2024-07-16
---

## Publishing

| Journal                                                      | word limit    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |
| Environmental Research Letters ([ERL](https://iopscience.iop.org/journal/1748-9326/page/Scope%20(Working%20Copy)#:~:text=Research%20Letters%20which%20exceed%204000,very%20broad%20readership%20in%20mind.)) | 4000          |
| Journal of Climate                                           | 7500          |
| PNAS                                                         | 4000          |
| Nature                                                       | 4300          |
| Nature subject journal, such as Nature Climate Change and Nature Geoscience | 3000 and less |
| Nature Communications                                        | 5000          |

### Nature

<https://www.nature.com/nature/for-authors/formatting-guide>

[Initial Submissions](https://www.nature.com/nature/for-authors/initial-submission)

The <span style='color:#32CD32'>**Nature journals are flexible with regard to the format of initial submissions**</span>. 

- Within reason, <u>style and length</u> will not influence consideration of a manuscript. 
- If revisions are requested, the editor will provide detailed formatting instructions at that time.

The typical length of an 8-page article with 5-6 modest display items (figures and tables) is <span style='color:#32CD32'>**4300 words**</span>. 

- A ‘modest’ display item is one that, with its legend, occupies about **a quarter of a page** (equivalent to ~270 words). 

- If a composite figure (with several panels) needs to occupy at least half a page in order for all the elements to be visible, the text length may need to be reduced accordingly to accommodate such figures. 

Keep in mind that essential but technical details can be moved into the Methods or Supplementary Information.

**Methods**

The ‘Methods’ section is in the main text file, following the figure legends. This Methods section will appear in the PDF and in the full-text (HTML) version of the paper online, but will not appear in the printed issue. 

The Methods section should be written as concisely as possible but should contain all elements necessary to allow interpretation and replication of the results. As a guideline, the Methods section does not typically exceed 3,000 words.

The Methods section **cannot** contain figures or tables (essential display items should be included in the Extended Data or exceptionally in the Supplementary Information).

**Extended Data**

Extended Data <span style='color:#32CD32'>**figures and tables**</span> are online-only (appearing in the online PDF and full-text HTML version of the paper), peer-reviewed display items that provide essential background to the Article but are not included in the printed version of the paper due to space constraints or being of interest only to a few specialists.

<span style='color:#32CD32'>**For initial submission you may include Extended Data items as regular display items in the body of the manuscript or as Supplementary Information**</span>. 

Up to 10 multi-panel Extended Data display items.

If the main finding includes a complex process we encourage the inclusion of a schematic to aid readers unfamiliar with the topic. [flow chart to display the process]

**Supplementary Information**

Supplementary Information (SI) is online-only, peer-reviewed material that is essential background to the Article (for example, large data sets, methods, calculations), but which is too large or impractical, or of interest only to a few specialists, to justify inclusion in the printed version of the paper. See the [Supplementary Information page](http://www.nature.com/nature/for-authors/supp-info) for further details.

- Supplementary Information should NOT contain figures (any figures additional to those appearing in print should be formatted as Extended Data figures). 

- Tables may be included in Supplementary Information, but only if they are unsuitable for formatting as Extended Data tables (for example, tables containing large data sets or raw data that are best suited to Excel files).



**Hierachy** in Nature, Nature subject journals

- A publication in *Nature* itself is obviously the most prestigious and is roughly equivalent with publishing in the most respected journal in your field.

  8-page article with 5-6 display items, approximately <span style='color:#32CD32'>**4300 words**</span>.

- *Nature* subject journals are a tier below *Nature*, but are also extremely prestigious and can allow young PhD students and postdocs to break into permanent research positions.

  - [*Nature Climate Change*](https://www.nature.com/nclimate/content#:~:text=Nature%20Climate%20Change%20welcomes%20ideas%20for%20future%20topics.&text=Length%20–%20up%20to%203%2C000%20words,and%20figures%20is%20strongly%20encouraged.)  \\
    Main text – up to <span style='color:#32CD32'>**3,000 words**</span>, excluding abstract, online Methods, references and figure legends. \\
    Abstract – up to 150 words, unreferenced.  \\
    Display items – <span style='color:#32CD32'>**up to 6 items (figures and/or tables)**</span>. The number of display items should be commensurate with the word length. Rule of thumb: one display item each 500 words. \\
    <span style='color:#32CD32'>**Sections**</span>: Introduction (without heading) $\rightarrow$ Results (divided by topical subheading) $\rightarrow$ Discussion (does not contain subheadings) $\rightarrow$ Online Methods \\
    Methods doesn not count into the main text word. Typically less than <span style='color:#32CD32'>3000 words</span>.
  - [*Nature Geoscience*](https://www.nature.com/ngeo/content#:~:text=The%20main%20criteria%20are%20that,accessible%2C%20non%2Dtechnical%20style.&text=%E2%80%8BLength%20–%20varies%2C%20but%20typically,1%2D2%20items%20are%20encouraged.) \\
    Main text – usually no longer than <span style='color:#32CD32'>**2,200 words**</span>, but can be up to 3,000 words at the editor’s discretion (excluding abstract, Methods, references and figure legends). \\
    Abstract – up to 200 words, unreferenced. \\
    Title – up to 90 characters (including spaces). \\
    Display items – 4-6 items (figures and/or tables). \\
    Results and Discussion material should be divided by 3-4 topical subheadings that are brief, but informative; the online Methods should also be divided by topical subheadings.

- [*Nature Communications*](https://www.nature.com/ncomms/submit/article) is a respectable "[megajournal](https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2016/04/05/the-newish-kids-on-the-block-touring-the-megajournals/)" a tier below the subject journals. It accepts a larger number of publications. \\
  Main text (not including Abstract, Methods, References and Figure legends) should be limited to <span style='color:#32CD32'>**5,000 words**</span>. \\
  *Nature Communications* is flexible with regard to the format of initial submissions. Within reason, style and length will not directly influence consideration of a manuscript. We also do not require a particular structure or format at first submission. If and when revisions are required, the editor will provide detailed formatting instructions at that time. 



**Sections**

1. Introduction

   Referenced text that expands on the background of the work (some overlap with the abstract is acceptable)

2. Results

3. Discussion

1-3 consists of main text.

Online Methods. Stand alone methodology, do not count as main text.



Depending on article types, requirements for length are different. Common article types: article, comments, analysis, correspondence, reviews, etc.



*Public Library of Science One*, or PLoSONE, 







The co-reviewers compile one joint report.

How to submit a co-review
The established referee and ECR will have separate accounts in our online system:

- The established <span style='color:#32CD32'>referee submits the joint review</span>.

- The ECR only pastes the following statement without any modification in the ‘Comments to the Authors’ section: 

“I co-reviewed this manuscript with one of the reviewers who provided the listed reports. This is part of the *Nature Communications* initiative to facilitate training in peer review and to provide appropriate recognition for Early Career Researchers who co-review manuscripts.”



Need to answer the following questions in the process of review:

- What are the noteworthy results?
- Will the work be of significance to the field and related fields? How does it compare to the established literature? If the work is not original, please provide relevant references.
- Does the work support the conclusions and claims, or is additional evidence needed?
- Are there any flaws in the data analysis, interpretation and conclusions? Do these prohibit publication or require revision?
- Is the methodology sound? Does the work meet the expected standards in your field?
- Is there enough detail provided in the methods for the work to be reproduced?





___

**NSD** (Norwegian Publication Ranking System)

Only level 2 journals

[Norwegian register for scientific journals](https://kanalregister.hkdir.no/publiseringskanaler/KanalTreffliste.action;jsessionid=aFA3i8w1Iab-eb+5agonfIQW.undefined?tts=619&a=false&tv=true&tfs=154&request_locale=en)







___

### IOP

**Open data**

https://publishingsupport.iopscience.iop.org/iop-publishing-data-availability-policy/
