---
layout: post
tag: life
title: Artificial Intelligence
---

## ChatGPT

[Desktop app](https://chatgpt.com/download/) is only available for Apple Silicon chips (M-series).

You can download the [Desktop app from GitHub](https://github.com/lencx/ChatGPT/releases) though. It supports Intel chips as well.

[A chrome extension](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/chatgpt-search/ejcfepkfckglbgocfkanmcdngdijcgld?pli=1) can be installed to Chrome.

This extension will make ChatGPT your default search engine in Chrome. Once ChatGPT has been set as your default search engine, you can search directly via your browser URL bar.  
→ Not worth it. ❌

How to boost response time in web browser ChatGPT:

- Avoid long conversations. Start a new chat for each new topic.
  
  Chatgpt needs to load the entire conversation history for generating answers, which slows down response time. You can also clear the history in settings.

- Start a new chat at least everyday.


Q: How to delete chat history?  
A: Click your account icon at the bottom left corner > Settings > Data Controls > Delete all chats. You will be asked to confirm the action. Confirm to delete all chat history.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Speech to Text

**Whisper** from OpenAI is a powerful tool for converting audio files to text. It supports multiple languages and can handle various audio formats.
Whisper recognizes 98 different languages, including Norwegian and English. You can either transcribe text in the same language or translate it into English.

Speech to text can be used to transcribe most types of audio and video files. The service can also be used to streamline the subtitling of video.

The quality of the automatic transcription with Whisper will vary, and the text should be reviewed and corrected manually. Both the sound quality of the recording itself and the language or dialect to be transcribed will affect the accuracy of the transcript.


Refer to <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/2025/08/13/Whisper-Transcribe-Norwegian.html">Transcribe Norwegian Audio</a> for a tutorial.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Image to Text

OCR (Optical Character Recognition)

Just run it using your API credentials. Here is a simple example. Just put in your real API Key, actual image url, and what you want in System and User. Just like the chat models, lots of influence with System and User.

source: <https://community.openai.com/t/image-to-text-description-in-the-api/477152/7>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Useful Prompts

> Rephrase / reformulate them in a story-like format (e.g., “ABC Corp. has just closed its books…”), so they feel more realistic?
>
> I am writing the problem-solving sketch / gist for a quiz question for my students. Improve the language of the sketch / gist, make logic flow naturally.


**Format bullet lists**

> One space after (a), (b), etc.
> 
> No trailing spaces at the end of lines.


**Return Markdown**

> Return the answer in markdown format directly in the chat box.  
> Use dollar signs for math.



### Useful template

1. create an exercise

   > **Task:** Create a prototype quiz exercise based on the exercise I provdie belowe. 
   > **Requirement:** Students can solve with pen and paper. 
   >
   > **Instruction:** Simulate 2 assets scenario, correlation 0.9, the asset return should be easy to calculate, i.e., no long digits after decimal.
   >
   > **Output:** Should be a narrative exercise to one-file.qmd
   >
   > **Quiz question:**

2. change style suitable for teaching

   > I want to add that exercise into one-file.qmd.
   >
   > I am using xaringan presentation to make slides for teaching purposes.
   > You need to break down the exercise into multiple pages suitable for presentation.

3. Provide solutions

   > Provide the solution sketch to section xx.
   >
   > Be concise, should include formulas and plugging in the corresponding numbers.

