---
layout: post
title: EpN
tag: life
update: 2025-09-30
---

## Guidelines for EpN

Nord University uses the [Emneplanlegging på nett (EpN)](https://fsweb.no/epn/forside.jsf) to ensure a digital workflow for work with program and course descriptions.


1. First, search for the relevant course by clicking on the magnifying glass at the top right. If you remember the course code, you can search for the course by typing it directly into the field next to the magnifying glass and pressing Enter.

2. When you’ve found the desired course, click on the field “Add to worklist” (so you don’t have to search for it multiple times).

3. Then edit your courses by clicking the green pencil to the right of the name.
   
   This will open the course in edit mode. Here you can change various fields. There are five tabs at the top: Generelt, Rapportering, Vurdering, Undervisning, and Emneinfo.

   - **Generelt:** If you want to change the course name, this is done under the “General” tab. 
   
   - **Vurdering:** The current assessment method is shown under the “Assessment” tab. 
     - **How to change assessment method?**

        If you want to change this, describe it under the same tab in the field “Change requests for assessments.” (Endringsønsker for vurderinger)
        
        Then enter a description of the new, complete assessment method in the Course Info tab under the field “Description of exam.” This is the field that will be shown online. Here you can also add detailed information (such as requirements for portfolio content and coursework requirements). 
     
     - **Hjelpemidler til eksamen**
       
       The “Permitted exam aids” field is important to review and specify how AI can (or cannot) be used in your course (see Guidelines for AI at Nord). 
       
       You will find the list of approved assessment methods [HERE](https://norduniversitet-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/menghan_yuan_nord_no/EWcLoaqH7uJNrzUYUPUxyT0BR3bTa84QshrNGXH1sKqmeg?e=fQ2f9m).

   - **Emneinfo:** The textual description of the course (such as learning outcomes (læringsutbytte), etc.) is also edited under the Course Info tab.

4. Press "Save" (`Lagre` the green button on the right) to save changes.
5. If the “S1 Ready for quality assurance” button (`S1 Klar for kvalitetssikring` on the right) is green, everything is in order. You can then press it to send the course forward in the workflow. If it’s not green, pressing the button will show warning triangles in the fields that are incomplete/incorrectly filled.


